[Music]
what is up guys karma medic here and
welcome back to another dose how have
you guys been
I hope interview prep has been going
well I've got another MMI video for you
guys today so hopefully this helps you
in your prep as well do let me know in
comments down below if you're getting
any more interviews if you've been to an
interview how it went anything like that
if you guys want to follow me on
Instagram you can do so over here and
you can see a little bit more about my
daily life at kacl and as a medical
student so let's jump straight into this
video when I did to ask me anything on
Instagram a couple of days ago one of
the questions that I got so much
overwhelmingly was can you please do a
video about ethical scenarios or
roleplay scenarios anything like that
and so today I'm gonna be doing a
role-playing scenario about breaking bad
news
now for medical school interviews don't
worry you're probably not going to get a
role play scenario where you have to
break bad news like a patient having
cancer or having received a very bad
diagnosis or even maybe some
complication having been had in surgery
so now they have nerve damage or brain
damage or anything like that those are
super super difficult scenarios that we
probably wouldn't get asked in an
interview for medical school so how
these questions typically present
themselves in a medical school interview
is that you'll be given a small blurb
saying something along the lines of your
friend went on vacation and you have to
look after their pet or you have to push
over their house or something like that
and while you were doing that either you
broke one of their favorite ornaments
like Avaaz or a flower or something like
that or you managed to run over their
pet or their animal died while they were
under your care something along those
lines that's a more likely scenario of
how you would have to break bad news to
someone so as far as how you break bad
news this is a really important skill
and something that you definitely need
to learn over your course of medical
school and it's good to know a couple of
things for the medical school interview
as well so breaking bad news is
obviously very difficult you want to
make sure that you deliver the news to
the person who needs to hear it but you
have to do it in a sensitive way in a
way that makes them feel as best as they
possibly can you want to make sure that
your empathic and showing as much of
that empathy as you can throughout the
entire communication process so that's
the first thing that I want to say for a
general tip regarding this question you
want to be a real human okay if someone
was sitting in front of you and tell you
that their pet died
or that they lost one of their favorite
ornaments that had a lot of sentimental
value to it for example you would you
would be upset and you would want to
show that upset to the person who was
sitting in front of you you want to let
them know that you care so you can
really show that throughout the
interview by your body language by your
demeanor by your tone you can really
give off the idea that you are being
empathic that you are showing that you
care and that you are also kind of sad
at what has happened if it is your fault
in the scenario you want to be
apologetic throughout don't ever make
them feel like it was therefore they had
something to do with it take
responsibility if the responsibility is
yours and be apologetic so I want to go
into a little bit more detail about how
I would answer the question and the
kinds of things I would talk about and
the kinds of things that I would also
definitely not say or talk about let's
say you receive a blurb for your MMI
interview you've shown up at your
interview you go into the first station
you read a little piece of paper that
says in this role play in the scenario
that you're about to do you and her are
close friends
you've been house-sitting whilst your
friend has been on holiday and you have
to explain to them when they got back
that you've run over their cat by
accident when you were backing out of
the garage when you tell the actor the
actor becomes hysterical and very angry
and yeah what do you do how do you
tackle the situation how do you talk to
your friend who's just come back from
holiday and you are the one who has ran
over their cat and you might think that
this sounds really crazy and it's like
way too out there of a scenario but you
will get scenarios like this that are
meant to make you feel a little bit
uncomfortable that I meant to be quite
difficult so that you guys can be put in
that situation so you can show how you
would deal with something of this
serious nature so let's start off with
the very beginning when your friend
comes home from holiday you don't gonna
immediately jump into saying whoa before
you tell me anything I need to tell you
this you might want to make a little bit
of small talk just ask them a bit about
how their holiday went so that they can
kind of be eased back into their
situation a little bit before you break
the bad news I don't think this is
entirely necessary and in fact some
people would probably want to know
immediately before they settle down
before anything happened what has been
going on and so I guess it's up to you
and you can do this on your discretion
now after that small intro before you
actually break the bad news you want to
make sure that you signpost and what I
mean by signposting is that you let the
person in front of you know that you are
about to say something that might be
upsetting to them you let them know that
this is going to be a bit difficult you
make it clear that you're moving on from
the Congress
we're just having and now you're about
to do something that is different we do
this all the time in patient interviews
when we're about to ask some personal
questions for example for asking about
sexual history or recreational drug use
I'll say something like I'm going to ask
you some questions now that might seem a
bit personal but it's something that we
do need to know in order to find the
best management or treatment for you and
then I would say have you ever used any
recreational drugs or are you sexually
active one of the time obviously in many
ways so signposting is super super
important it lets the person know that
there's something coming it lets them
know to prepare themselves a little bit
if you're scenario happens to be in a
patient setting in a clinical setting
then this would also be a good time to
ask the person if they're prepared to
hear this news at this moment you can
say are you ready to hear this news now
or would you maybe want to come back
with a family member or a close friend
or something like that if that would
make it easier for you you want to give
them that option and ask for their
permission before you break this news to
them in our current scenario you're
talking to your best friend or a close
friend who's cat you're taking care of
so you don't need to really ask for
their permission but you can signpost
and say hey I'm about to say something
that might be a little bit upsetting
maybe do you want to sit down or can we
talk about this inside or anything like
that now after you've signed posted and
you've prepared them that you're going
to be breaking bad news you want to just
go for it and break the bad news you
don't want to beat around the bush you
don't say any lies you don't light in
this situation or anything like that you
want to say it as clearly and simply as
possible so they understand what you are
saying for example for our scenario you
can say Jessica or Nathalie or whatever
the person's name is I'm really really
sorry but when you were away and I was
backing out of the driveway in my car I
accidentally run over your cat or
whatever the situation is obviously what
you're saying this you want to show a
lot more emotion a lot more empathy
I'm currently quite sick but I was
feeling really motivated to make a video
so that's what I'm doing but hopefully
you would have a little bit more emotion
when you were actually breaking this
news once you've actually broken the bad
news you want to make sure you give the
person a little bit of space a little
bit of time and silence that they can
understand what it is that you've said
studies have shown over and over again
them when you tell a patient that they
have cancer or you give them a very bad
diagnosis and they sort of tune out and
they don't listen to anything you say
after that
so once you've broken the bad news you
want to just be a little bit silent give
them some space to understand and take
in everything that
gone so now you've broken the bad news
probably the hardest part for the
patient or for your best friend is over
now they've heard the worst of the
situation and now you want to know how
to manage it or how to deal with the
person once they've become very angry or
once they've become very upset and that
is going to be slightly more difficult
to navigate and I'll tell you guys a
couple of things that I would definitely
do and some things also that I wouldn't
do so I want to start off with things
that I definitely would not do okay when
you're breaking bad news like this to
someone you want to be as a empathetic
and apologetic as possible you don't
want to at any point make them feel like
it was their fault you never want to
push them and tell them to hurry up or
sort of get over it don't worry it's
going to be okay you'll be fine you'll
get over it you just need time you can
buy a new cat blah blah these are things
that you definitely do not want to say
obviously don't imply that it's there
for or tell them to get over it or tell
them not to cry or anything like that
these are all things that are big no
nose and big red flags you definitely
don't want to say them in your interview
and also obviously don't make the
conversation about yourself don't tell
them about how super bad you fell and
how many hours you spent crying and how
you weren't sure what to do or whatever
let the person soak up this information
and deal with it in their own way don't
push them or tell them how to feel or
try to move their feelings in a
different direction than what they are
going through now let's talk about a
couple of things that you definitely do
want to do some things that you should
do when consoling the person in front of
you after you've broken bad news to them
first and foremost you just want to be a
human you want to be a normal person I
know that you're in an interview
situation and I know that you're
role-playing and it seems super
artificial and that there's an actor in
front of you this person's cat didn't
actually die and it seems really
artificial and I understand that do try
to get involved in a situation do try to
put yourself in their shoes and see how
you might feel or how they might feel so
of course when this is going on you know
you would be visibly upset you would
want to show that you were upset and you
would want to control them as much as
possible so you might say some things
like oh you know your your pet was so
lucky to have you when they were alive
they lived such a great life
and you enjoyed so much time together
blah blah blah something like that just
to make them
I guess think of the better times and
I'm trying to remember the kind of more
positive light you definitely also want
to validate their experience so you want
to tell them you have every right to
feel this way I know that I
would feel extremely upset as well if I
was in a similar situation something
like this must be very hard for you I'm
so sorry for what you're going through
this is very difficult or frustrating
I'm sure something like that to validate
their experience to let them know that
what they're feeling and what they're
going through is okay you definitely
don't want to be saying things like oh
don't worry about it or don't cry why
are you so upset
you'll get over it these are all things
that are not going to help at all if you
can't relate to their experience you
should also say that you can admit that
you know you can say I've never lost a
pet before or I've never lost a family
member before I can't imagine what you
must be going through this must be very
difficult you can see that a couple
things start to come up over and over
again as well and of course you can also
suggest that they reach out for help if
they need it you can say you know if you
have any family or friends that can help
you in this situation and of course you
can also offer yourself as a means of
support you can say if you're ever upset
if you ever need to talk to someone of
course I'm there for you I want to talk
to you and help you through this as much
as possible like please feel free to
talk to me I would never be judgmental
you know I always want to help something
like that you can even help them seek
out counseling sessions or support
groups in order to help them overcome
their loss and you might think that
losing a pet is kind of stupid and why
would someone be upset about losing a
pet but to a lot of people losing a pet
is like losing a child you know some
people take their pets very very
seriously and they really love them and
really adore them so even if you might
not understand that human connection
very very well you should be aware of
other people's feelings and how they
might feel towards their pets and
generally I feel like you need to find a
balance between asking them lots of
questions and leaving enough room for
silence and for them to sort of soak in
and understand and for them to talk and
initiate conversation so I do think it's
good to ask lots of questions in order
to get them maybe talking about how they
feel or just expressing themselves
generally talking will help get things
off your chest and will make you feel
better but don't forget to give them
silence as well and you can read this in
Aria you can see how the patient or how
the actors is acting and you can feed
off of their body language and demeanor
and what they are saying and yeah
sometimes just being there to listen to
someone is going to go a really really
long way you know if you just sit there
and listen to what they have to say take
in everything and acknowledge their
sadness or acknowledge their feelings
and make them feel like that's okay
that's gonna go very long
it's helping someone feel better and a
really really big tip if you're getting
stuck you're not sure what to say and
especially at the end if you haven't
said this before is always ask the actor
you know do you have anything that you
want to ask me do you have anything that
you want to say because that gives them
an opportunity to get something off
their chest something that they've
really wanted say that they felt like
they might not have been able to and
also in the interview scenario the actor
might prompt you and they might give you
a hint as to something that you might
have forgotten to talk about or
something that you might have forgotten
to do so definitely ask them if there's
anything they would like to say and yeah
guys I think that's all I have to say
for this role playing station Breaking
Bad News honestly is quite a hard
station and if you were to get it it
would be one of the harder ones that you
would get just get a feel for the
scenario get a feel for how the actor is
playing how they're acting and feed off
of them mimic their body language mimic
their empathy and just always be
apologetic show empathy show the actor
and the interviewer that you care that
you want to help remedy the situation
you want to make them feel better so at
the end of the day that's probably what
you want to do as a normal human outside
of them in my interview you just kind of
have to show it to the interviewer while
you're there if you guys enjoyed it
don't forget to leave a like on this
video and subscribe to my channel if you
want to see more videos from me if
there's any specific videos or topics
that you guys want me to cover
definitely leave a comment down below
follow me on Instagram if you haven't
already I'm sure you'll enjoy what I
post on there and you can ask me a lot
more questions and talk to me directly
on Instagram as well and yeah that's it
guys I'll see you in the next video good
luck preparing for my interviews peace